Get to know the UiPath Studio user interface - part 2.
OK, so let us open UiPath Studio, create a blank project and get to know the UiPath Studio user interface
for automating projects.
When you've opened your UiPath Studio application, go to start and create a blank process.
Once I click here it will ask us for a project name,
and as you might remember, my name is Tor, so let us call it "A tour with Tor" and click create.
And here we are.
This is the place where the magic happens.
I will now take you through the different panels you see here,
the point being you have a high level understanding of the interface to make it easier for you to explore
it on your own later.
OK, so on the left side, you see "the products, activities and snippets" panel.
In the middle, you find what we call "the designer panel".
And on the right hand side you have "the properties panel".
In addition, we have "the ribbon" at the top.
And before we go further, please go to the very left of the ribbon and click new, and choose sequence.
Sequences are the smallest type of projects.
They are suitable to linear processes as they enable you to go from one activity to another seamlessly.
And we now see that a sequence was added to the designer panel. And as the sequence was added,
the last important high level element of the user interface was revealed, namely "the control bar" at
the bottom of the screen.
So let us have a look at every component in a little more detail,
starting with the designer panel. The designer panel displays your current automation project,
it enables you to make changes to your project and provides quick access to variables, arguments and
imports.
Your current automation project will be shown here as a workflow, which is a graphical representation
of the automation project.
And the workflow is made up of different activities, such as clicking buttons, scraping data, making
calculations and so on.
I guess you still remember those RPA capabilities that we discussed in an earlier lesson.
Anyway, it is here in the designer panel that we will build our robot.
On the left side, we have the project, activities and snippets panel. Starting with the "project tab",
that is what enables you to view the contents of your current project, ad folders, open file location
and manage project dependencies.
The project tab is simply an overview of your automation project.
Usually, an automation project contains many different files and components.
And this is where we have full control and overview of every project file and automation.
Once you start automating processes on your own, you will quickly understand that breaking the process
down to many single steps and building code in separate UiPath files makes total sense.
Continuing with the "activities tab". The activities panel, show available activities that can be added
to the current project and provides a search box for quick access.
So we have three types of activities.
We have general activities, system specific activities and technology specific activities.
General activities or activities such as click.
So if I search for click, you can see that we have, for example, an activity called mouse click.
If a drag-and-drop the activity to our sequence in the designer panel, you will see that I can indicate
on screen where I want UiPath to click. And now I will just delete this activity by marking it and clicking
delete. Another general activity is typing.
So if I search for "type" you can see, for example, "type into". That is an activity where you can type
into any form or any search field, as a human would do using a keyboard when entering data on a website
or in Google.
So there are a lot of general activities like this.
Then we have system specific activities.
So if I search here for Excel, which is one example, you'll see that a lot of activities will pop-up
on screen.
These are activities that we can use together with Microsoft Excel; append range, close the workbook,
copy a sheet, delete a range, get a cell color, get a selected range, read a cell, read a cell formula,
and so on.
Another example is Microsoft Outlook.
So if I search for Outlook, you'll see here that there are several activities connected to Microsoft
Outlook;
get outlook mail message, move outlook mail message, send outlook mail message, and so on.
The third activity type is activities connected with specific technologies.
An example here could be, for instance, OCR technology, which stands for optical character recognition.
And let us just check out the different options.
So when I search for "OCR", you will see there are something called "engines".
And here we have different OCR technology providers.
We have Google, Microsoft, Tesseract and UiPath.
So that is an example of a technology type of activity to be used for recognizing text on formats such
as PDF or in virtual desktop environments such as Citrix.
Lastly, in the project, activities and snippets panel, we have "the snippets". And the snippets panel enable
you to easily reuse automations.
It includes by default multiple samples and snippets.
So snippets are components that are reusable for more than one automation project.
If we, for example, go to "snippets" and to "loops" and open this, we can have a look at "for each file
in folder" and drag-and-drop this to our sequence in the designer panel.
You will see it opens.
And here we need to select a folder.
We need to assign each file in the folder to a list.
And for each file on this list, we have the option to do something.
And the benefit of this snippet is that the activities are already put together and the logic in place.
And you basically do not have to figure out on your own how to put together activities to perform automation
on all files in a specific folder.
OK, so we will delete this to by marking the container and pressing the delete button.
It is extremely powerful to reuse components in UiPath, and it may save developers a lot of work.
UiPath actually have their own marketplace, www.marketplace.uipath.com, that is offering immediate
access to an extensive set of RPA building blocks that developers and UiPath partners can share and
use to accelerate their automation projects. UiPath Marketplace is like an app store for automation,
and most of the content that can be found here is free.
I really, really recommend you to check out this site.
You can even find complete robots here that can help you reduce mundane tasks in minutes.
Seriously.
And more content is added to this site every single day.
On the very right side of the interface, we have "the properties panel". Properties are used to adjust
and configure different activities behavior.
This is where you tweak the activities to suit your needs.
Some properties are common for all activities and some are activities specific.
I will just go back to the activities panel and search for an activity to open a browser. Searching for
"open browser",
you will see there already is an activity to open browser and I will drag-and-drop it to our sequence
in the designer panel,
click it - and you will see that something now happened in the properties panel.
So let us look at, for instance, "input" and "browser type". Clicking the dropdown,
you can see we may choose what browser to use.
I will set it to IE (or Internet Explorer), but you may also choose any other browser, for example,
Firefox, Chrome or Edge.
Choosing another browser will require you to install a browser extension.
Looking at options, we can choose the browser session to be hidden.
We could choose the browser session to open a new session, which is set by default now.
Or we could choose to have a private or incognito session.
So these are some of the examples of properties that are connected to the open browser activity.
As mentioned, every activity has their own set of properties, which some are common for all activities
and others are activity specific.
Again, let's delete this activity so that the designer panel is clean and only containing our sequence.
And now let's have a look at "the ribbon".
The ribbon is straightforward and consists of three tabs.
First, we have the "home" tab, and that is what we went through in the last lesson.
And then we have the "design" tab.
This is where you can add sequences, flowcharts and state machines to your project.
It is where you can install and manage packages.
Here are some recording activities that may help you automate your processes and you'll find the screen
scraping and data scraping wizard.
You have the opportunity to open the UI Explorer to help you find selectors, you can use the remove unused
function, to remove unused workflows, variables, arguments and so on - to make it easier to keep a
clean product without redundant data and files.
There is also a handy tool for analysing your files to ensure there are no errors in your project folder
and you may export the workflow to Excel, or publish it directly to Orchestrator if that is what you use
to schedule, control and monitor your processes.
The last tab is "debug".
That is where you validate and run your workflow while you use debugging tools to set breakpoints,
monitor the activities execution step by step.
And for instance, you may use the "slow step" function, which is a very nice feature to slow down the
debugging process and have full control of what your robot is doing.
You also have the option here to open logs, to view details regarding process execution and any changes
made to the project.
So that was the ribbon, and lastly, we have "the control bar" at the bottom. It has variables, arguments
and imports.
And this is where you can create variables, delete variables, deal with arguments, import files and
so on.
We will not go into detail on this right now.
But you should know that variables in UiPath are used to store multiple types of data and all the variables
from the .NET framework are available in UiPath.
OK, fine.
Now we have a high level understanding of the user interface and the different panels that are here.
And all you have to do to build a process is simply to drag-and-drop activities to the designer panel
and configure them so that they do what you want.
Let us create a simple automation that will greet you with your name.
For example; "David, you're awesome!
Welcome to UiPath"
What we want to do is to go over to activities, search for "input dialog" and double-click it.
And now we need to configure the activity. In the dialogue title we will write "What is your name?",
using quotation marks.
Whenever we work with text in UiPath, we use quotation marks on each side of the text.
In the "input label" box, we will write; "Please write your name".
So this is our input dialog. Now, we need to go over to properties because when we're asked to write
our name, we will write our name and the name we write will need to be stored in a variable.
And that is what we will put in "result".
Here we will actually need to create the variable and we can do so by pressing CTRL+K on our keyboard so
that the "set name" opens and we will name our variable "name".
Once you have written "name", press enter.
If you now check out the control bar and variables tab, you will see that at a variable named "name" was
created as a string type variable that is used for text. And the scope is our sequence,
so everything's perfect!
The next activity we want is a message box, so let's search for "message box" and double-click it and
it will automatically be added under our "input dialog" activity in our sequence.
The message box activity is an activity that will show a message box on screen when the robot is run
containing whatever message we put in it.
So let us write our message.
First we write the name of our variable, which is "name", and you will see that UiPath will suggest our
variable,
so we just double-click it.
Then we write +", you are awesome!
Welcome to UiPath :)"
So this is our process, and if you run it right now using "run file" or CTRL+F6, you
should first get the input dialog on screen and here you can write your name,
I will write my full name, which is "Tor-Inge" and press OK,
and what shows next is our message box. "Tor-Inge, you are awesome! Welcome to UiPath :)"
And that's it.
If I run it again and I write another name, for instance, my friend David's name, the variable will
contain the value "David" and the message box will show:
"David, you're awesome!
Welcome to UiPath :)"
Before we end this lesson, I will just show you a little trick, because as you see now, by default,
robot projects are set to run in debug mode.
I prefer to have "run file" as default,
and to handle this, I go to "home" >> to "settings" >> to "design", and I change the setting to "run file".
If you experienced any trouble following this lesson, I've added the UiPath project file to this courses
downloadable resources.